Keyboard Shortcut Pattern (#5886)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts.mdx

layout: DetailPattern
tags:
  - pattern
aliases:
  - /salt/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts
data:
  resources:
    [
      { href: "https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/patterns-keyboard-shortcuts--with-dialog", label: "Examples" },
    ]
  components: ["Avatar", "Button", "Flow layout", "Icon", "Stack layout", "Text", "Tooltip"]
---
The keyboard shortcuts displays a comprehensive, searchable list of all available shortcuts, helping users quickly learn and reference key combinations to navigate and perform actions efficiently.

 <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts.png"
    alt="Keyboard Shortcuts"
  />

## When to use

Use this pattern to:
- Increase task efficiency by enabling users to perform actions quickly.
- Provide a true alternative to mouse or track pad navigation, supporting users who prefer or require keyboard input.
- Clearly communicate available shortcuts to help users discover and learn efficient workflows.

> - Allow users to search for and execute actions directly from the keyboard, improving accessibility and user experience.

Reviewer: this does not sound right... you can search and you can execute but you do not execute an action from the search. Maybe search needs a clearer description ?

<GuidanceCallout type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
Provide keyboard shortcuts to cater for users with accessibility needs who may not have access to a mouse.
</GuidanceCallout>

## How to build

### Anatomy

1. **Keyboard shortcuts switch**: A switch that allows users to turn the keyboard shortcuts list on or off.
2. **Filter**: This allows users to quickly search and locate specific shortcuts by typing keywords.
3. **Action name**: Actions represent user-initiated commands—such as Save or Delete—that correspond to defined shortcuts. Each action should be clearly named to reflect the UI command executed by the shortcut.
4. **Description**: For actions that are unique to your application or require additional context, a brief description can be provided to help users understand their purpose.

> 3. **Key**: Each keyboard shortcut consists of two types of keys—modifier keys and character keys—which work together to trigger the action.

Reviewer: Any of the above work...4 is good.

4. **Description**: A brief description for actions that are unique to your application or require additional context to help users understand their purpose.
3. **Key**: Keyboard shortcuts use a combination of modifier keys and character keys to perform actions.

<Callout>
  Shortcut key labels are automatically defined by the operating system. This ensures users see platform-appropriate keys (e.g., "Cmd" on macOS, "Ctrl" on Windows), providing a consistent and familiar experience.
</Callout>

 <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-anatomy.png"
    srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-anatomy-dark.png"
    alt="The anatomy of the Keyboard Shortcuts Pattern, with numbers indicating the position of the examples given"
    border
    background="secondary"
  />

<Callout status="success" title="Best practices" >
  Use concise and descriptive names for actions to reflect the UI command executed by the shortcut.
</Callout>

### Layout

- Use [Switch](salt/components/switch) to display keyboard shortcuts on/off switch.
- Use [Combo box](salt/components/combo-box) to display search field.

> - Use [Table](salt/components/table) to display keyboard shortcut list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use [Switch](/salt/components/switch) to display keyboard shortcuts on/off switch.
- Use [Combo box](/salt/components/combo-box) to display search field.
- Use [Table](/salt/components/table) to display keyboard shortcut list.
```

  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-layout-dark.png"
  alt="The layout of the Keyboard Shortcuts pattern, showing how other components are used within it"
  border
  background="secondary"
/>

## When to use

Use this pattern to:
- Display a comprehensive and searchable list of keyboard shortcuts available in the application.
- Help users quickly reference, discover, and learn key combinations, improving efficiency, accessibility, and overall user experience.

<Callout status="success" title="Best practices" >
  Provide keyboard shortcuts as an alternative to mouse or trackpad interactions, supporting users who prefer or require keyboard input.
</Callout>

## How it works

### Searching shortcuts

1. The keyboard shortcuts initially displays all available shortcuts.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-searching-shortcuts-default.png"
  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-searching-shortcuts-default-dark.png"
  alt="The Keyboard Shortcuts Pattern in its initial state, showing all shortcuts"
  border
  background="secondary"
/>

> 2. When the user enters text in the filter input, the list updates to show only the matching shortcuts. For guidance on filtering behavior, refer to the [List Filtering pattern](salt/patterns/list-filtering) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. When the user enters text in the filter input, the list updates to show only the matching shortcuts. For guidance on filtering behavior, refer to the [List Filtering pattern](/salt/patterns/list-filtering) page.
```

<Table>
  <THead>
    <tr>
      <th colSpan="1">Platform</th>
      <th colSpan="4">Modifiers</th>
    </tr>
  </THead>
  <TBody>
    <tr>
      <td>macOS</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Option</td>
      <td>Cmd</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>Windows</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Alt</td>
      <td>Win</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Linux</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Alt</td>
      <td>Meta</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Bloomberg</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Alt</td>
      <td>Go</td>
    </tr>
  </TBody>
</Table>

<Callout title="Bloomberg Keyboards">

Bloomberg keyboards, common in financial environments, feature a distinctive orange "Go" key used to execute commands. When designing shortcuts for these keyboards, consider supporting the "Go" key and avoid conflicts with Bloomberg’s built-in shortcuts. Always test your shortcuts for compatibility.

</Callout>

#### Character keys

> You can display up to three character keys in a keyboard shortcut. Make sure at least one of the keys has a close association to the action that the shortcut executes—for example, "Cmd + S" for the Save action. This will make it easier for users to memorize keyboard shortcuts they'll use frequently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to display up to three character keys in a keyboard shortcut. Make sure at least one of the keys has a close association to the action that the shortcut executes—for example, "Cmd + S" for the Save action. This will make it easier for users to memorize keyboard shortcuts they'll use frequently.
```

This pattern is a recommended layout and should be displayed within an appropriate container component that fits the application's information architecture and supports the user's workflow.

 <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-example.png"
    srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-example-dark.png"
    alt="Keyboard Shortcuts pattern example, showing the actions and respective key combinations side by side"
    border
    background="secondary"
  />

## How to build

### Anatomy

1. **Keyboard shortcuts switch**: Allows users to enable or disable application keyboard shortcuts.
2. **Filter**: Allows users to quickly search and discover specific shortcuts by typing keywords.
3. **Action name**: User-initiated commands—such as Save or Delete—that correspond to defined shortcuts. 
4. **Description**: A brief description for actions that are unique to your application or require additional context to help users understand their purpose.
3. **Key**: Keyboard shortcuts use a combination of modifier keys and character keys to perform actions.

<Callout>

>   Shortcut key labels are automatically defined by the operating system. This ensures users see platform-appropriate keys (e.g., "Cmd" on macOS, "Ctrl" on Windows), providing a consistent and familiar experience.

Reviewer: checking again... it's stale from a week ago, because we are not resolving comments, this final review is painful... I've had to re-check things from over a month ago :(

lesson learned - stay on top of comments and resolve before release day

</Callout>

 <Diagram
    src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-anatomy.png"
    srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-anatomy-dark.png"
    alt="Keyboard Shortcuts Patterns Anatomy"
    border
    background="secondary"
  />

<Callout status="success" title='Best practices' >
  Use concise and descriptive names for actions to reflect the UI command executed by the shortcut.
</Callout>

### Layout

- Use [Switch](salt/components/switch) to display keyboard shortcuts on/off switch.
- Use Use [Combo box](salt/components/combo-box) to display search field.
- Use [Table](salt/components/table) to display keyboard shortcut list.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-layout.png"
  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-layout-dark.png"

>   alt="keyboard Shortcuts Pattern Layout"

Reviewer 2: @karlgoldstraw are you able to help review the alt text on these diagrams please

Reviewer 4: @joshwooding I've updated the branch with slight amends to the alt text to be a little more descriptive.

  border
  background="secondary"
/>

> ## When to use

Reviewer 3: What about this? 'Use this pattern' to section should focus on displaying keyboard shortcuts, aligning with the pattern definition. Benefits of keyboard shortcuts were moved to 'Best practices'
Use this pattern to:
- Display a comprehensive and searchable list of keyboard shortcuts available in the application.
- Help users quickly reference, discover, and learn key combinations, improving efficiency, accessibility, and overall user experience.

Best practices
- Provide keyboard shortcuts as an alternative to mouse or trackpad interactions, supporting users who prefer or require keyboard input.

  border
  background="secondary"
/>

### Scrolling keyboard shortcuts

If the keyboard shortcuts list exceeds the available display area, an overflow shadow and scrollbar should be displayed to help the user navigate the list and recognize that more shortcuts are available.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-scrolling-shortcuts.png"
  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-pattern-scrolling-shortcuts-dark.png"
  alt="The keyboard Shortcuts pattern showing a vertical scrollbar with overflowing content"
  border
  background="secondary"
/>

### Choosing a container for the keyboard shortcuts

This pattern should be placed inside the appropriate container for your application. Select a container that aligns with the product’s user experience and context of use. Common options include:

- **Dialog:** Suitable when users need to focus on shortcuts without distraction, and when shortcuts should be accessible from anywhere in the application through a keyboard shortcut—quickly and without disrupting common tasks.
- **Preferences dialog:** Works well if keyboard shortcuts are part of broader settings.

> - **Drawer:** Appropriate for persistent access, or when shortcut settings are relevant to a specific part of the application that is in focus.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Dialog](salt/components/dialog): Suitable when users need to focus on shortcuts without distraction, and when shortcuts should be accessible from anywhere in the application through a keyboard shortcut—quickly and without disrupting common tasks.
- [Preferences dialog](salt/patterns/preferences-dialog): Works well if keyboard shortcuts are part of broader settings.
- [Drawer](salt/components/drawer): Appropriate for persistent access, or when shortcut settings are relevant to a specific part of the application that is in focus.
```

  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-in-dialog-dark.png"
  alt="the Keyboard Shortcuts pattern located inside a dialog"
  border
  background="secondary"
/>

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-in-preferences-dialog.png"
  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-in-preferences-dialog-dark.png"
  alt="The Keyboard Shortcuts pattern located inside a preferences dialog"
  border
  background="secondary"
/>

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-in-drawer.png"
  srcDark="/img/patterns/keyboard-shortcuts/keyboard-shortcuts-in-drawer-dark.png"
  alt="The Keyboard Shortcuts pattern located inside a drawer"
  border
  background="secondary"
/>

<Callout status="success" title='Best practices' >
  To ensure accessibility for all users, any action to open or close the keyboard shortcuts—such as clicking a settings or close button—should also be operable through keyboard interaction. Providing both interactive elements and keyboard access ensures that all users can easily access and exit the keyboard shortcuts list, supporting a wide range of needs and preferences.

> </Callout>

Reviewer 2: I would delete this, it's not relevant specifically to keyboard shortcuts. @honey-chang 

```suggestion
```

## How to define shortcuts

When defining your shortcuts, we recommend:

- Consider whether each shortcut should be global or contextual.
- Combine one modifier key with a character key that's associated with the name of the action (e.g., "Cmd + S" for Save).
- Use a maximum of three keys, at least one of which must be a modifier key.
- Test your shortcuts on multiple keyboard layouts, operating systems, platforms, and browsers to ensure they are easy to use and do not conflict with essential system or browser shortcuts.
- Avoid ambiguous or hard-to-reach keys—prefer letters and numbers over symbols, as some characters (like the £ sign) are not universally available or may require complex key combinations on certain layouts.

> - Clearly document shortcuts for each operating system.

Reviewer 2: @honey-chang

> - Clearly document shortcuts for each operating system.

Author: Makes sense. It should read as a sentence. I have made  it to When defining your shortcuts, we recommend taking the following steps:

</Callout>

### Global vs Contextual shortcuts

When setting up keyboard shortcuts for your application, consider both global and contextual shortcuts. 

<Table>
  <THead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Global shortcuts</th>
      <th>Contextual shortcuts</th>
    </tr>
  </THead>
  <TBody>
    <tr>
      <td>Definition</td>
      <td>Available throughout the application, regardless of focus</td>
      <td>Active only when specific elements are focused</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>Example use case</td>
      <td>Saving a document from any screen</td>
      <td>Selecting text in an input field</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Example shortcut</td>
      <td><Kbd>Ctrl/Cmd</Kbd> + <Kbd>S</Kbd></td>
     <td><Kbd>Ctrl/Cmd</Kbd> + <Kbd>A</Kbd></td>
    </tr>
  </TBody>
</Table>

### Modifier and Character keys

#### Modifier keys

When the user presses a modifier key at the same time as another key, the default function of that key is modified—and together they execute the assigned shortcut. Cmd, Ctrl, Shift and Alt are examples of keys that you can use to modify other keys. Modifier keys can differ depending on the platform.

> <Table>

Reviewer 2: This table looks incorrect, the first modifier is under the platform header

Author: Corrected this.

  <THead>
    <tr>
      <th colSpan="1">Platform</th>
      <th colSpan="4">Modifiers</th>
    </tr>
  </THead>
  <TBody>
    <tr>
      <td>macOS</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Option</td>
      <td>Cmd</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>Windows</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Alt</td>
      <td>Win</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Linux</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Alt</td>
      <td>Meta</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Bloomberg</td>
      <td>Ctrl</td>
      <td>Shift</td>
      <td>Alt</td>
      <td>Go</td>
    </tr>
  </TBody>
</Table>

<Callout title="Bloomberg Keyboards">

Bloomberg keyboards, common in financial environments, feature a distinctive orange Go key used to execute commands. When designing shortcuts for these keyboards, consider supporting the Go key and avoid conflicts with Bloomberg’s built-in shortcuts. Always test your shortcuts for compatibility.

</Callout>

> The modifier keys are automatically translated for users on Mac or Windows machines. For example, shortcuts using "Ctrl" on Windows will be mapped to "Cmd" on Mac, ensuring a consistent experience across platforms.

Author: Great catch, Since we are referring to Operating system here it should be macOS(also we use macOS across the site too) and Windows. 
 Also in the table header in the same site, we are calling it as macOS and Windows
